V4 linds filecoin (#176)
protocol/launchpad: docs/filecoin/README.md

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/OX3\_r64M0C6jSJantF8W3Xovw8lywU6njHSygtJNxfIpCG1523NZQj2O9WSapLqhOLJIvOc\_V6yGPIL7qELLeCSGHFpwtjTVNFsDC9fx30vH7rMnRTiRhYbq8MrXQtEWBlm0Rj4724Js)

> In Filecoin, users can pay to store their files on storage providers (They can also apply for to be verified clients and allocated DataCap, which incentivizes storage providers to store their data for free & reduced prices). Storage providers are computers responsible for storing files and proving they have stored the files correctly over time. Anyone who wants to store their files or get paid for storing other users’ files can join the Filecoin network.

Reviewer: Instead of mentioning DataCap, I would say Filecoin Plus. I think we don't talk about Filecoin Plus in the curriculum, but the introduction is a good way to introduce it.
```suggestion
In Filecoin, users can pay to store their files on storage providers; they can also apply to [Filecoin Plus](https://filecoin.io/blog/posts/filecoin-plus-how-storage-providers-can-engage-with-verified-clients/), which verifies clients and incentivizes storage providers to store their data for free & reduced prices. Storage providers are computers responsible for storing files and proving they have stored the files correctly over time. Anyone who wants to store their files or get paid for storing other users’ files can join the Filecoin network.
```

Available storage, and the price of that storage, is not controlled by any single entity. Instead, Filecoin facilitates open markets for storing and retrieving files that anyone can participate in, and recieve FIL for their participation in the network.

[Read More](https://docs.filecoin.io/about-filecoin/what-is-filecoin/#for-users)

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (1).png>)

_Filecoin is a data storage and retrieval marketplace that coordinates untrusted parties to buy and sell provable storage._

### Filecoin Features

* **Verifiable storage** – Rather than needing to trust a cloud storage provider or rely on
legal recourse, the Filecoin Protocol cryptographically verifies data storage.

> * **Open participation** – Anyone with sufficient hardware and an internet connection can be a stroage provider (and Filecoin miner) for the Filecoin Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Open participation** – Anyone with sufficient hardware and an internet connection can be a storage provider (and Filecoin miner) for the Filecoin Network.
```
